# Reddit_API_SQL_NLP
This project showcases my understanding of APIs, basic SQL commands, and sentiment analysis. 

Purpose: This program is a simple sentiment analysis of the diction used in the Reddit posts. This can be useful in trying to understand Reddit user’s views on a specific topic. On a bigger scale, a company may want to use sentiment analysis to understand how people view their company or even a product of theirs. Data collected and analyzed from sentiment analysis will aid in a company’s business decisions, as they can use this data to best serve their customers.

Goal: My goal by analyzing the Colorado subreddit was to see what Reddit users were saying about Colorado and what words were used the most so I could understand their sentiment, whether it is positive or negative. Some of the posts may not have been opinions, but events as well. Not only would I be able to see their sentiment, but I can also see if they were posting about positive or negative events in Colorado.

Summary of what was accomplished: An API was created. I stored the subreddit into a variable based on the hot filter. Then, a dictionary was created to aid in the creation of the data frame. Next, I looped through the posts within the subreddit of Colorado to add the specific columns into the dictionary. The data frame was created using that dictionary where the keys are the titles of the columns and the value pairs, as a list, is the data in that column. I imported SQLite so I could export this data frame into an SQLite file. The file was saved to my hard drive. I then was able to do basic SQL queries on the data to gain insight of the Reddit posts in Colorado. I then imported nltk, which is a natural language tool kit, so I could then remove the stop words from the high_score data frame. These stop words will not aid in the analysis. Once I removed the stop words, I was able to see which words were used the most to help me understand possible sentiments. I plotted a few different graphs to understand the relationships between certain features for both the high score data frame and the Colorado data frame that included all the data. Lastly, I created a function to apply the sentiment function to the entire high score data frame and plotted the sentiments and their frequency. 

Analysis: The histogram that plotted the score and their frequency had a left skewed normal distribution for both data frames. The score represents up votes or down votes. It makes sense why the high_score data frame was skewed because that data frame only had the posts with a score of 1,000 or more. The colo_df included all the data, but the majority of the posts has a score of close to 0. This is likely because the posts were newer. The scatter plots displayed a positive correlation when plotting score and the number of comments. I found this to also make sense because if people are up voting or down voting it, they are most likely commenting on the post as well. Hence why I see the outlier, with a score of above 7000, have the most comments. Furthermore, the sentiment score was plotted with its frequency to show that most of the posts had a sentiment score of 0. In fact, the mean was 0.11. This statistic surprised me because with how people post online, I thought I’d see it either be negative or positive. However, I did print the most negative and most positive title, and found that this program may not be as accurate because of the subjectivity of the posts. 

